[Music]
hey everyone welcome to the smart
economy podcast a production of
neon.pdf conversation we discussed how
decentralization can positively impact
the AI economy using blockchain networks
to purvey truth how monolithic vers
modular infrastructure approaches how
the ethereum Wayback machine will store
all of ethereum's history reasons for
Hope and so much more just a reminder
nothing said on this podcast is a
solicitation to buy or sell any tokens
the guest or host May hold tokens
discussed in any given episode and you
can check out a full disclaimer on
www.newsday.com if you enjoyed this
episode please rate and review it on
your favorite podcasting platform and
share it with your friends and family
every rating review like and comment
really helps us get in front of more
eyes and ears and brings you more of
your favorite guests with all that said
I really enjoyed speaking with Ganesh
and I hope you enjoy the conversation
ation 2 hey everyone welcome to the
smart economy podcast today we're joined
by ganach Swami the CEO and co-founder
of calent what started as a data
analytics company but is becoming an
infrastructure services provider uh and
I really can't wait to dig into all of
that uh but how are you doing today GES
I'm doing fantastic Dylan super happy to
be here and share some of the
perspectives that we're seeing uh in the
crypto world and the broader uh economy
uh let's let's get started yeah so I
hope you don't mind I kind of want to
jump into this with like a bigger kind
of question and this kind of ties into
what we were talking about before we hit
the record button um you guys are
starting to build for uh AI
infrastructure you're starting to build
like clients for ethereum and so you're
you're kind of seeing where the where
the puck is going in terms of uh how
this technology and the world that that
we operate in is kind of innovative and
and Cutting Edge but will become
mainstream so in a world where AI
becomes more and more prevalent why is
is it so important that today we start
building decentralized infrastructure to
help support this emerging technology
yeah it's a great place to start so I
think fundamentally uh what we are all
striving to build is a way that you know
uh compute and opportunities are
Equitable and accessible to all and so
in the EI realm there is really you know
three facets of how decentralization can
help uh the AI economy the first is
being the decentralized uh training
aspect which is where uh these models
are are built right so it's the the
training phase it's where you go to
school and you spend the first couple of
years uh just uh just learning about the
world and there are lots of great
companies doing training both in the
centralized and the decentralized
fashion uh these models are especially
these Foundation models are very
expensive to build like 100 million
dollar plus and thankfully because of
the work of meta and some other
providers out there they buil be open
source models unlike the ones from open
AI so decentralized training is one
facet decentralized inference is where
uh everything that you've accumulated in
school all the knowledge that you've
accumulated in school is put to use it's
put to use and put to test in the real
world so that's where the decentralized
or the centralized inference can come in
and you can see where the capital
expenditure is in the world today I
would say it's about 50/50 50% towards
train 50% towards inference but how I
think at how a lot of people including
how Nvidia thinks about this world is
that training is only going to be maybe
5% of the spend 95% of that is going to
be inference because you only go to
school for a fraction of your life and
then the rest is applying and learning
new skills and and so on so inference is
where uh we're going to see maybe a THX
maybe 10,000x in the growth in the
crypto economy and so that is the second
facet the third facet which is an
Overlook facet is the the data aspect
the underpinning for all of this the
training of the models the inference
enriching furing these models with
external data uh comes from the data
facet and this is the a problem that
we're looking to solve so I think in the
world of uh models for example you have
close Source models and open source
models and it's really important to have
open source models so that it's
accessible to everyone you can just run
on your computer and so on and not
everyone needs the all1 St kind of model
right why do you need a you know a like
a truck to go gr grocery shopping some
people do it but that's Overkill right
you sometimes just need a smaller model
that you can run your phone the data
aspect is overlooked because what I
think will happen in the world is that
because these AI agents and AI processes
are so prevalent and so integrated into
our world it's really hard to know
what's real and what's not real and at
some point Society people in in in the
world will start to ask how did this
model come to be where's is data coming
from and just like how you have uh
champagne versus sparkling wine you're
going to have uh decentralized data that
is used to train the model and just
close Source data that is used to train
the model I'm not saying biases are
wrong people have opinions and it's good
to have a difference of opinion you
could have you know diverse in opinion
diversity in thought I mean that's the
the fundamental like First Amendment but
the key issue is that these biases have
to be disclosed and this is where
blockchains and uh crypto like crypto
systems really come into place because
you have the full provenance of the base
data and all of the Transformations that
have happened to that data that is then
fed into these models to train them and
then further Downstream in terms of
inference so the decentralized data
aspect is specifically what we are
focused on along with you know all of
the other aspects down the pipe but they
not really focus on the decent price
training aspect uh today there's lots of
great projects out there doing that
today what a killer way to kind of paint
the picture for what AI is the the three
kind of verticals within that sphere and
how crypto and blockchain really fits
into that I think as an industry
especially as crypto and blockchain
folks a lot of people aren't quite
asking yet how is AI going to integrate
with blockchain and crypto and and
because not a lot of us are asking yet
we really haven't gotten to have these
thoughts exper thought experiments and
kind of like run down the path that you
did so I really appreciate that and I
guess uh to kind of follow up on that
and maybe to get a little bit of your
background what was kind of your Genesis
story with crypto and blockchain what
was the first time you heard about it
and maybe uh if you're like me you
didn't have an aha moment until a few
years later or or maybe when you did
hear about crypto the first time you had
your aha moment what what was that yeah
so it's more of the the former my
introduction to crypto was quite
accidental so my background is actually
as as a physicist I used to work on
Cancer drugs and I did that about half
my career the problem with
Pharmaceuticals is that it takes a while
to get products out to the market so
this company that was on the founding
team uh 10 years in we have an MVP out
because of the FDA approval process and
so on it just takes a while and my peers
in technology were starting companies
and going to Market and doing m&a
transactions in 18 months and so I was
kind of missing that fast bace and so I
pivoted out of pharmaceuticals into just
data infrastructure in the to also a lot
of data warehousing uh data pipelining
and so on I did that for a while and a
friend of mine uh recommended that go
check out this database hackathon that
was hosted by a blockchain company and
I'd mostly looked at blockchains as a as
a joke because I was used to 50,000
transactions per second and the team at
that point was less than 20 transactions
per second and like okay well this is a
j a joke this is a toy it's not really
that useful not that practical but it
drains a lot in Vancouver which is where
I'm from and so this you know lazy
Saturday I just went out uh to this
hackathon built this really cool kind of
Technology just to scratch my own itch
which is getting blockchain transactions
into Excel so you don't have to run
these nodes you don't have to understand
blockchains or you don't have to do any
of that stuff and just from the data
world I know that Excel is basically
every analyst uh has it in their tool
tool set and most uh people would
probably pick Excel over their spouses
right that's how important Excel is in
the world and so just building this
toolkit where you can build blockchain
transactions see blockchain transactions
and pivot in Excel is a very useful tool
so I just built up the scratch by onich
and bringing the hackthon and then
deciding to start a a company a
commercial operation to take this
product to Market and build it out so
that's the Genesis story uh thankfully
that weekend it drained in Vancouver and
there was this hackathon I think that
company that even hosts the hackathon is
not around anymore but uh that was the
Genesis
and then I built it because it was cool
technology is cool I'm a technologist
I'm very optimistic about the future you
know I love this this kind of stuff and
I built it for that reason and it was
only years after with all of the changes
that were coming out as I started to pay
more attention to politics to what's
happening in society that's when I
realized that you know this can truly
solve a genuine problem that we face as
society which is how do you get to the
ground truth how do you believe uh what
someone is telling you how do you keep
people accountable the claims and the
promises that they've made and I think
that is where uh it that was my aha
moment and uh you know I've never shot
away from this but it's taken me maybe
like three four years of working
full-time at crypto before I understood
okay this is the this is the unlock and
um for better or worse I don't come from
an economy where there's hyper inflation
and I need uh uh you know Bitcoin and
you know I I I haven't gone through
those experiences you know we live in a
very safe uh stable Society uh so I
think you know uh we we live a luxurious
life in some ways so those aspects don't
really talk to me but just you know the
the data and the Providence of claims
and the truth is what speaks to me and
that is why I continue to build and
continue to build in the crypto space
today so what are some of the
similarities and differences in the
needs of of data and data service
providers that you saw from 2017 through
today in what ways is blockchain still
doing what it was supposed to do and in
what ways are there kind of new needs
that have Arisen in the years since
you've been in the space yeah it's a
fantastic question so I go back to this
uh interview that Jeff Bezos uh did uh
Jeff is a founder and was a CEO of
Amazon and he said entrepreneurs should
focus on things that do not change
rather than things that change and so
don't focus on the new and the shiny and
the novelty right use that to for some
Sizzle but focus on things that never
change so in the Amazon example people
want faster better cheaper delies in the
case of data people want faster better
cheaper data that's all Point Blank
right and whether it's a an L1 or L2 or
a rollup or a ZK technology or opos
technology doesn't really matter at the
end of day is your data fast is your
data cheap can I trust your data and is
it is it like available to be that's it
that's basically it so you know day
after day for many many years now all
we've been doing is focusing on this
core I would say core Loop of just
better faster cheaper data and so over
the years we've had multiple technology
waves come by uh when we started there
was no D5 there's no NFD there's no game
f there's no social fi uh it was all L1
data in fact when we started ERC 20s
were just coming out so there were no
tokens either there were no stable coins
and all of that has happened just in the
last like couple of years right so we've
come a long way as a as a as an industry
as a technology but comes back to that
better faster cheaper data and so the
diversity of applications on the
blockchain have also increased right
back in the Ico era it was mostly
funding these Ico projects using eat so
e was your your payment currency and
then you would get this erc20 token and
so I would say maybe 99% of those erc20
tokens from back then don't exist today
or are basically dead but it battle
tested this technology of doing erc20
transfers and erc20 approvals and so on
uh which is how you know it led to the
next wave of uh you know uh Innovation
with stable coins and then nfds and and
then using Game gamey uh with these
faster blockchains and then you know
just keeps uh keeps evolving at a faster
and faster pace so the Crux is like
people need data because the whole
promise of blockchains is it's an
immutable Ledger once you put data in
there uh it cannot be mutated and it has
it becomes strong and strong the
guarantees become stronger and stronger
as the blockchain propagates but our
belief is that the whole premise the
whole promise of blockchains would be
unfulfilled if you cannot read from the
blockchain and so everyone out there if
you look at Solano look at all the
optimistic rollups all the zi rollups
they dump their chest and say uh we can
hit these transactions per second and so
on right it's how fast can you write to
the blockchain but nobody out there
except a few players like Coan are
actually saying this is how fast you can
read from the blockchain forget right to
the blockchain because you know I think
right to the blockchain there's like
dozens of teams working on that but
reading from a blockchain can you read
all of the historical data I mean
there's a whole facet of these data
center chains you know that's happening
with ethereum and and chains just to
reach a faster throughput some of the
core values are being lost but can you
read the D from the blockchain because
you claim to have foot on the blockchain
you claim to have this immutable Ledger
but how do I know it's actually on there
can I get it back and if the answer is
no then what's the point of putting in
the in a in a blockchain in the first
place right so that's essentially you
know where kind of the problems we're
trying to solve has shifted has evolved
over the years but it comes back to the
same thing better faster cheaper yeah
and maybe this question I'm not sure if
I'm going to formulate it accurately or
adequately but you've mentioned multiple
times in our discussion so far trust
that this technology can be used to
embed trust and being able to read data
is being able to trust its source but
with all these Advent of new verticals
such as dii nfts decentralized identity
all this stuff that is putting data on
chain how does the scope and scale of
trust change in one way we can trust
everything we see on chain because it's
an open source a mutable network but how
can we leverage this for ways in which
we don't even comprehend right now one
of the things as a content creator I'm
consistently worried about is we're
going to get to a future soon where AI
is writing articles where maybe somebody
is using uh some sort of AI service and
scraping all the podcasts I've ever
hosted and is using my voice to create
new um episodes for whatever purpose
they want so how will we be able to kind
of like start using these systems to
trust that an individual that I do in
indeed trust you know I would assume
that people listening to this trust me
as a host how can we start leveraging
these systems to kind of embed trust
into what we consume and maybe what are
some other ways in which you and your
team are thinking about how trust is
going to become more and more important
as this technology becomes more
prevalent in day-to-day Society yeah so
fantastic set of questions so in the way
I think about this is trust is a layered
approach and so you have the base data
which is your blocks and your
transactions and there should be no
confusion on what is real and what is
not real right it's back by cryptography
it's backed by mathematics it's not uh
the trustb bro uh semantics that we see
uh in society right so that there should
be no confusion on what is real what the
ground growth is a layer about that is
whether this is uh a trade it's a sell
or a buy or a transfer that's where
people's opinions come in and at that
point uh you know it gets a little fuzzy
in terms of what is real and what is not
real and I don't think there's an issue
with that right people have uh
difference of opinions and that actually
what makes Society uh very unique
especially Resturant Society so that's
where the provence aspect comes in so
let's take a look at what actually mean
what do you mean by provance provance is
just the entire uh paper trail of every
change that has made and because of
cryptography and because of blockchains
what you can do is you can build on
three facets of the provenance which is
who did this what did it do and when was
this done uh it's not talking about the
uh veracity of the accuracy of the data
it may be fake news it doesn't matter
but you know who did it and you know
when it was done and what was done and
so you have this paper trail of
signatures or proofs that these actions
were done so if there's any point in
time if you would to trace back and
figure out where did this come from
that's where the data Provence chain the
trail uh makes a difference so now if
you think about intellectual property if
you think about uh creative rights if
you think about uh Ro royalties if you
think about all of these things even in
the AI models right if you look at open
AI they scrape all of this information
and they use it and they commercialize
this and what would be a fair economy is
where all of the people who have
contributed their content for this model
are compensated for the queries now
without a blockchain system you cannot
really do the accounting on who
contributed this data to that model
because the answer from the inference
engine from the AI engine is not just
it's Dylan's podcast right it's a
mishmash of multiple uh multiple you
know content sources and so you would
only get a fraction of the commercial
value of that query but that's still
better than nothing and so you're still
you know being compensated for what is
rightfully your intellectual property so
these are some of the things that I
think blockchain can really really fix
and I'm really excited I think you know
these are genuine problems if you see
you know month after month after month
you see open AI I think this is a few
months ago where I think it's Carla
Johansson's voice that they cloned and
didn't ask her permission or they asked
her permission she turned it down and
then they still did it uh so something
something is off there right when when a
when a company for-profit company uh I
guess back then nonprofit now for-profit
company is able to uh pull a fast one
and so this is you know they were able
to do this with Johansson what about the
average uh everyday content creator on
YouTube so I think you know these things
uh will have to change I think uh this
is going back to the uh the value of
these uh the spirit of the law behind
intelle intellectual property so I think
these things will change it's just a
matter of uh things catching up yeah so
just like with everything there's
there's a there's with the coin there's
a heads and there's a tals there's
there's an equal and opposite so just as
you mentioned Scarlett Johansson's voice
being taken without a permission uh this
is one way in which we could be afraid
of how AI technology could be leveraged
um Grimes also did uh she released her
voice and open sourced it and she
actually asked her fans to use her AI
generated voice to create music and one
of her fans created a song so good that
Grimes wanted to do a collaboration with
her so while we have these areas to kind
of be concerned and worry about there
are also these beautiful areas that are
artistic that can create something out
of nothing that we hadn't even thought
of before and I kind of want to use this
to kind to segue into a topic that has a
pro and a con side
um from a retail token holders
perspective because I'm not a developer
so my interaction with blockchain
networks is typically through daps and
tokens and and through holding and
through using these networks to to sign
and send transactions one of the
arguments that I recently heard at um
I've actually been hearing this across
the space but reared its head at
permissionless which is where I was last
week was this modular versus monolithic
sort of thesis and so using my
experience and my context we'll just use
a theorum for for instance the eth L1 a
lot of folks are maybe even and this
isn't supposed to even be an economic
discussion or token Financial advice or
anything like that but when you talk
about modularity versus monolithic
chains a lot of people are upset right
now because the eth token isn't
necessarily AC crewing value the way
that maybe like salana is because we do
have this Advent of multiple l2s that
are taking network activity away from
ethereum and have their own tokens and
their own ecosystems and maybe one could
argue that mon iic infrastructures are
kind of the topic of the day or the
tokens that are hot as we can see with
salana so that's my kind of painted
context of modularity and monolithic
sort of infrastructure it's through the
token experience and witnessing what's
happening on chain what about with data
how does modular data infrastructure
kind of offer a pro and a con versus a
monolithic sort of infrastructure yeah
so the let's think about what these
words actually mean right so in a in a
monolithic architecture
like ethereum what happens is that the
there's vertical integration across all
of the facets of the blockchain this
could be the settlement layer this could
be the execution environment this could
be the data availability layer and so on
so what that means is that if you need
to evolve or innovate on a specific
layer you have all of this for a lack of
betterwood baggage around you and you
have to it just moves a lot slower
because you have all of these
interdependencies and so on with a model
architecture what ends up happening is
that you can swap out comp components
you can hot Swap and really pick the
best-in class components for your use
case so uh what is happening now is you
know despite it being called a
monolithic architecture you now have an
opportunity to use different execution
environments you have an opportunity to
use alt da like Celestia uh you have
these options available to you so I
would say in many ways is uh AUM is
capturing the best of all worlds where
the base layer is something that's
monolithic that moves slow that's a
settlement layer uh it's pretty robust
you're never going to get rug bolt it's
not the place for experiments and all of
the experimentation happens outside the
L1 with all at the edges at all the l2s
so that is another key aspect about uh
how the architecture is evolving now
with regards to the price of e and so on
um I actually just wrote an offed on
coindesk last week talking about this
specifically and I think ethereum came
up with this rollup architecture where
intentionally they outsourced The
Innovation to the rollups to the edges
so that they can move at a faster pace
and there's not a lot of uh Legacy code
or not a lot of uh you know baggage they
have to carry forward and then um that's
essentially what they uh they did and
now what has happened is that the claim
is that all of the RO UPS capture all of
the fees and eat has not had a chance to
appreciate and value but if you look if
you take a step back you know uh you're
not going to be beholden to e holders e
holders are important but it's not a
it's it's a piece of technology that is
building the world computer so the
sticking to the ethereum road map and
doubling down on the L2 and improving
this is the right path forward and some
of the members in the community uh
continue to stick to that initial vision
of the road map while some others
because their bags are hooding are
saying that you know you you got to like
um almost like a it's almost like a
parasitic relationship uh with the L2
when it's more of a symbiotic
relationship with the l2s because
they're all part of the AUM ecosystem
and the only way to survive is not to
capture all the gains yourself but to
let a thousand flowers bloom and so I'm
in that camp where the etherum road map
is the right answer and uh all of these
uh rollups will uh succeed and with the
data aspect is exactly the same right so
every rollup has a completely different
data environment right sometimes it's
not even evm evm is the ethereum virtual
machine so that's what ethereum uses
that's what all the chains like optimism
and bass and polygon and arbitrum and ZK
syn they all use a variant of the evm
but there are other VMS like the mve VM
uh movement Labs is coming up with this
new execution environment uh they're SC
like Eclipse that's building an L2 with
the svm which is a salon VM so you can
run Salon programs secured by the ATM L1
and I think the the world is like super
diverse you're never going to have one
size spits all and so that's fantastic
and so the only way for a data provider
equivalent to evolve with this
architecture is to have a modular
architecture because a monolithic
architecture was meant when at a time
when there was only one blockchain that
was eum which is the case in 2018 we
only added our second blockchain support
in 2020 right before that none of the
other blockchains were really live or
didn't matter at all and today you know
calance supports 200 plus blockchains
and part of the reason for scaling to
that speed is because of our modular uh
and then know rebuilding reconfiguring
rearchitecturing the core engine behind
uh this data uh data product I love that
and so it seems like with the Advent of
all these different networks and chains
there's just these kind of gaps that Co
valent can really fill so maybe you
could use this as an opportunity to kind
of describe a little bit more in detail
what calent does and I'm also really
interested to hear about how not only
coent fills the gaps between all these
different architectures and blockchain
networks that exist but how are you also
Bridging the Gap between web 2 and web 3
great question so maybe let me start
with the web 2 web 3 aspect uh the word
coent comes from coent bonds for your
listeners who have taken high school
chemistry so calent bonds is a kind of
chemical bond and so here the analogy is
we're binding rev 2 and rev 3 or
databases and blockchains uh centralized
systems and decentralized system so
that's really where the analogy comes in
and so um databases as an industry has
been around for like 40 50 years it's
hundreds of billions of dollars I think
just one company alone Oracle is uh
worth hundreds of billions of dollars
and so uh this is a pretty mature kind
of industry and when databases were
first introduced into the ecosystem
nobody really care about why you need
database or why why you need uh SQL as a
language and so on but databases are
here to state right they're not going
anywhere it's fully mature it's a system
of record for a lot of these systems uh
out there so it doesn't matter if you
use a CRM or like any kind of like even
the software where we recording spotcast
has a database at the back end so every
application is backed by by our database
in the web3 world it's exactly the same
thing you have an application AAP that
is backed by a blockchain but if you
want to interact with the rest of the
ecosystem you want to have this kind of
lens into treating this blockchain like
a database so that is exactly what coent
does so the blockchain continues to
propagate continues to get transactions
continues to secure users assets and
data and then on the flip side it looks
like a database so you can run all of
your standard database queries against
uh the coent infrastructure so that's
Essen essentially it's this two-headed
monster that can serve both purposes and
on top of that modular database that has
all of their transaction data uh what we
built is we built a couple of products
so our first product is the Gold Rush
product which is a developer API and so
if you look at any kind of uh standard
dap uh there's a or maybe let's take a
specific example like a wallet use case
for example uh what you would have is
the first view is a list of your tokens
the second view is a list of like nfts
that you have the third view is a list
of your historical transactions so let's
take these three specific views so this
is a common use case across most daps so
list of your tokens all of your erc20
tokens what is the spot address uh spot
uh price um you know what is your total
value uh what's the logo so these like
it just gets you that information list
of nfts you want to know what is the
floor price what is the collection name
you want to see a thumbnail you want to
see maybe the sales history you want to
see uh what is the volume that has been
creaded you want to be able to sort that
by you know how many holders and so on
and it do views a list of transactions
which is just your transaction history
so it's one to one merit with your bank
account let's say you you have a you
know US bank account you go in you have
multiple accounts you have a chicking
account you have a a savings account
maybe you have some kind of like
registered account maybe you have
different currencies maybe a US dollars
maybe a Canadian dollars maybe you have
uh euros and everything is catalog you
see the outsanding balance you tap into
one of those accounts you see all the
transactions the credit and debit that's
exactly what the Gold Rush API does and
we have hundreds of apps out there that
rely on this data this API that looks
exactly like a web2 API so it's not very
different from integrating with a stripe
or any web2 service in fact you even pay
using credit card so that's really how
that product goes to Market so you don't
have to learn the differences between
salana and polygon and arbitrum and base
and eat L1 it doesn't matter so all it
does is it shows you all of that uh key
information and then you can go build uh
your application on top so you don't
have to reinvent the wheel so that's one
example of an application that be built
on top of this infrastructure there are
other use cases we built a block
Explorer example we built a you know an
an Analytics tool example and so on so
that's really how the entire ecosystem
lives so on the model stack itself it's
a decentralized protocol so you have
about 30 different operators who are
running this data pipeline so start
calent the commercial company that's
running this data pipeline so data is
secured uh through cryptography and
Mathematics on how the coent database is
built and then that coent database is
then monetized through the bious
products like gold rush and so this
monetization Loop is basically what goes
back uh to through token BuyBacks and it
that the whole economy flows that way so
that's basically how the system works
love it when you were just describing
Gold Rush um as an as an American when
it comes to tax time it is such a pain
to get this data to scrape it to put it
into a form that I can send to the IRS
so I was envisioning how there could be
a tool built using this API that would
benefit me but and I'm as I'm thinking
about this and my very real world
problem I had to I got to thinking like
who are some of your clients and
customers that are using Gold Rush you
can't necessarily be only servicing you
know web 3 natives when you're providing
these services and making them
interoperate between Defi and trafi sort
of uh providers so are you seeing like
traditional entities traditional
brick-and-mortar companies uh mom and
pop type stores are you seeing kind of
like non three natives um using Gold
Rush who are kind of like some examples
of your clients yeah so I think
depending on the cycle it comes and goes
in terms of the rep to adoption and uh I
think we're on an upswing right now so
we're seeing more repb to adoption than
maybe the last two years uh so most of
our bread and butter are red three
Crypton native uh companies so uh you
talk about the taxation use case uh my
my understanding is that we are the
biggest data provider to pretty much
every tax company out there so if you're
a ux taxpayer and you go through owns
and young ey ey data is coent if you go
um if you're a retail uh and you retail
like parti Spin and you go to token tax
that's coaling data if you want to do
accounting Erp kind of stuff like you
know integral um soon request and so on
all of that is like coent data so
there's hundreds of use cases right it's
just just a a can of tomato sauce and
some pasta it's up to you whether you
want to make lasagna or something else
right so we just give you the raw
materials there so on the repb two front
we have uh companies like uh ey is an
example uh big four accounting firm so
that's coent um Fidelity is another
example of an Institutional player so
they dabble in both the web 2 and web 3
I believe they have 20 million customers
in the US so they're pretty large um and
then they have a whole crypto business
which uh there there are like thousands
of people working uh on C various kinds
of crypto products I'm pretty sure that
ETF is part of that uh Department as
well so there's a bunch of action going
on there um in the previous cycle we had
all these nftd Studios coming to play uh
with our data so we had like Warner
Brothers uh they release a Batman nft
collection so they're trying to monetize
understand the the holders and so on
there was this uh agency that did the
Nike um Nike uh air drop uh the the
Nicks they they got almost $20 million
in terms of collection so that was like
pretty solid so we wrote a whole like um
you know case study on them um this
cycle I think what we're starting to see
are games which are top tier AAA games
using blockchain as a back end so uh an
example there would be someone like
gonzilla which is uh just you know
watching crypto in the back end but I
right now I believe it's on the steam uh
steam Marketplace and soon on uh on Xbox
and other uh other kinds of platforms uh
but that's a blockchain game but if you
were to play the game you wouldn't
understand uh you wouldn't think it's a
crypto game because you're not going to
you're not going to have a metamask pop
up and so on right so that's an example
of the experience that I'm really
excited for so lot of the data analytics
the data pipelines in backhand there is
is coent so yeah I think we are
horizontal platforms you see use cases
in finance in gaming in nfts and um in
Accounting in in Erp in taxes uh wallets
just you know just spread the gamut
there of use cases um amazing kind of
wide swath of of use cases and verticals
um actually really excited to hear you
talk about AAA gaming Studios bringing
in blockchain into uh the back end of
their Tech stack um I was wondering when
this was going to happen because if you
go back two or three years ago a lot of
Gamers had animosity towards
cryptocurrency networks and nfts because
of their perception of proof of work
networks and how harmful it may or may
not be to the environment so it's kind
of like a really cool use case for you
to to mention so while we're talking
about like a wide swath of web two and
web 3 types of use cases uh calent also
as you mentioned earlier has replicated
over 200 blockchains so what does this
look like because there's one hand where
you can just kind of Leverage evm chains
and somewhat copy and paste to May tweak
the parameters for the difference of the
networks but then there's entirely
different Tex Stacks like move VM as you
were mentioning or even the whole Cosmos
ecosystem so at this point when you and
your team are onboarding support for a
new blockchain network to integrate into
the Cove valent kind of overarching data
service provider what does that look
like for you guys how do you determine
which new blockchain network to
implement and onboard what's the process
like for onboarding an evm Chain versus
a brand new architecture just would love
to hear you mind dump that whole process
of of onboarding a new network work
absolutely so it comes down for us not
as a as a single transaction because
we're building an ecosystem so it comes
down to the the fly wheel that they're
trying to spin so the fly wheel is uh
more blockchains leads to more data
meets to more developers most more use
cases and more more data and more
blockchain so that's a fly wheel there
which means that if a blockchain has no
users has no traction uh it doesn't
matter how much money you're willing to
pay us we would never index that
blockchain so we there have been
examples of uh you know blockchains that
have come to us and have offered you
know seven figure grants but if there
are no users there are no developers no
one's building on those chains uh we
could get the money but it doesn't so
our purpose in spinning this uh flywheel
faster so that's an example of where uh
there's a mismatch in expectations and a
lot of the times the ecosystem heads on
the other side they have a checklist so
when you larger chain there's a
checklist of infrastructure providers
you have to go through right you need a
stable coin you need a Oracle you need a
bridge you need indexer you need a block
Explorer you need a you know um some
kind of liquid management tool right so
there's a checklist and coent is one of
those items on the checklist and they
you know usually knock on our doors and
say hey we need coent support we have
this budget are you willing to go and on
our s we have so much inbound demand in
terms of new chains that we see okay do
you have any application is anyone
building on here do you have some kind
of different view on the world is just
another you know undifferentiated evm
chain because there are like hundreds of
these right because if you go to a
rollup as a service provider it's it's
like a few few thousand bucks and you
can spit up a chain with a token right
that doesn't mean much so those are the
kinds of question that we ask another
key question that we ask is that whether
it's evm or non evm and nonm chains are
significantly harder to index compared
to evm chains so one of the I would say
it's a lucky bet in the sense that we
started in in the evm world with ATM and
evm happens to have one out today it's
the majority of the deployments out
there but if you look at a nonm chain
svm is an example as as an exception svm
like the Solon VM is maybe one other
ecosystem that has you know reached
escape velocity and is here to state but
if you look at like the the near
contracts if you look at something
exotic like uh elron I think they even
rebranded or cardono which is a utxo
blockchain or um Ripple or Stellar uh
there's not a lot of action on there
besides payments uh you know just to be
frank you know the the the market cap
tells a different story right you
definitely don't want to uh take a
longer short position on these chains
based on traction because uh these
prices are disconnected from actual
utility on the back end but if you if
you actually look at who's building what
the tvl are what are the top apps are
these apps funded companies are vish's
playing in that industry usually the
answer is uh no not really and um you
know it's a very sobering thought so in
our case if there's no traction if there
no developers if there's an
undifferentiated view on the in the
world uh we generally don't uh you know
engage with those kinds of projects I
want to take a side step real quick
because you brought up something that's
really interesting and you've been
building in blockchain since 2017 you've
probably been paying attention a little
bit longer when I first got in was mid
2017 and back then you could say X part
xchain is partnering with Y country and
the token price would pump like 40% out
of nowhere there was not really any
utility to these underlying networks and
and price was hypers speculative in the
years that you've been building here
have you seen more of a direction
towards a marriage between underlying
utility of a chain and the market cap
for that chain are we still in kind of
this speculative separation where there
isn't necessarily a value placed on
utility like we might see with a stock
that has an underlying company and a
price to earnings ratio are we getting
any closer to having some semblance of
of like a real metric that actually
marries the two to one another I think
you know the answer here and the answer
unfortunately is uh is no and if you
look at uh the top 10 uh tokens by
market cap there's a lot of garbage on
there right I can't wait for the day
where you know these cardos and so on uh
just fall off that top 15 top 20 and
it's it's uh a bit surprising I think
polygon just dropped off the top 30 and
polygon uh one of the hottest apps today
which is the um is uh poly Market which
is the the betting on elections and so
on is on polygon and uh polygon dropping
off the top 30 just means that it's not
catering to the Right audience in terms
of like Val uations and so on in the
General stock market what happens is
that you're you're uh ranked based on
profitably and free cash flow and these
really concrete metrics uh that have
been you know refined over decades and
this is why you have a lot of Chun with
the you know companies on the stock
market like apple was uh on the brink of
bankruptcy um you know uh when Steve
Jobs came back I would say late '90s I
was 97 or 98 and Microsoft had to bail
Apple out there were like I think like
100 days from going out of business and
then now apple is the first like
trillion dollar company so that sh on
these uh in the stock market is is uh
pretty pretty uh you know brutal because
it's it's pure uh numbers now there
might be exceptions like Tesla and so on
you know which has a very different
trajectory disconnected from what's
happening on the ground but generally
you know things it's well understood on
how to Value these companies but if you
look at the how you value these
blockchain networks uh there's no
framework right if you uh if you look at
the gas fee or you look at the the burn
mechanism and then you back it down to a
like a discounted cash flow and you
value these networks uh obviously those
Valu are are out of lack so uh are we
trending in the right direction I think
there's uh generally uh more awareness
with the participants on uh predatory
tokenomics and uh you know high flow uh
a low float High FTV down only kind of
tokenomics there's General awareness but
look at what's happening with the meme
coins right so it's mostly an insiders
game it's it's super prary it's like
people don't disclose who the holders
are they call it fair but it's not
really fair because all of this is it's
just that on chains like salana you
don't have the visibility into the data
as much as like eum so you can't really
get these uh these there's not a lot of
transparency around this so it's
unfortunate that you know uh the
frontiers of crypto continue to attract
the uh getrich quick schemes um but I'm
optimistic I'm optimistic I mean uh you
know there's definitely uh dashboards
like top and Domo that rank based on
active users and revenue mechanisms and
so on and uh at some point you know uh
the Music Stops and you have to you know
live by a benchmark so I can't wait for
that
because I think projects like Co will
get rated but um yeah but not Financial
advice yeah no thanks for uh thanks for
Sid stepping some into the market a
little bit and sharing your insights and
I agree and and often times when things
go either parabolically upward or
downward when it comes to token prices
one of the ways that I really get
grounded is by coming back into the
technology and speaking with Builder
such as yourself and really kind of why
we stick through this during the the
parabolic upward moments that we hate
with meme coins and in the parabolic
downward moments that we hate with our
bags getting heavier um but ultimately I
think it's kind of the opportunity that
this technology offers that really keeps
us here and keeps people here from
multi-year Cycles so I kind of want to
like loop back into a really cool kind
of technological discussion and hear
your inputs into how that Cove valent is
helping to make ethereum and and EDM
land uh a more resilient place that can
stand the test of times of maybe am uh
regulatory ambiguity uh maybe negative
legislation uh maybe just diminished uh
Market participation and so I want to I
want to pick your brain a little bit on
the ethereum Wayback machine and just
kind of hear a little bit about the
power that light clients offer in terms
of making a network more robust and more
resilient um for instance if I were to
want to run a full ethereum node I would
have to go and do a lot of learning
right now and I'm just you know a quote
unquote simple retail user who who might
who might know a little bit more uh but
not enough to be dangerous so yeah I
just kind of want to hear um what calent
is building with ethereum Wayback
machine and your perspective on how that
increased the resiliency of of the
broader ethereum ecosystem great so I uh
it's a great question I think it's uh
it's more philosophical rather than
technical I think there're uh different
opinions and I think you know uh um we
believe the way the world should be one
way while other people believe another
way that's okay that's great you know
you have lots of solutions out there so
fundamentally comes down to this right
so um a team right now is in a very
challenging spot and the reason for that
is that it's going after two ideals it's
competing with Bitcoin as a store of
value and this is where where the
ultrasound money narrative comes in
that's where the E the fee bone
mechanism comes in there that's where
the inflation deflationary mechanics
come in and every time uh like
especially after the l2s have uh come in
and uh that's where the whole discussion
with the parasitic nature comes in
because the fee burn is not as much so
it's gone back to being an inflationary
uh token that's eat the currency itself
so it's competing with Bitcoin as a
store of value as as digal gold as uh
you know something that you can hold on
to and on the other hand it's competing
with Solana as an application platform
which is the world computer it's the app
store for all these decentralized
applications and Solana is has never
claimed to uh be a store value it's very
clear in it's not star metric and it's
building the developers platform so it's
even by trying to compete with these two
different ideals which at times are
opposing and conflicting it's actually
failing at both uh both ws and there is
a Chinese FR that uh Chase two rabbits
and you catch none so that's exactly
what's Happening Here and so what has
happened is that there's a lot of
infighting on whether the road map for
ethereum is the right approach and this
is where I I said previously that the
eat holders the E back holders are
holding the road map hostage and so in
our opinion uh the right approach for
ethereum is to go down and be the
best-in-class developer platform right
and not really focus on the store value
and things of that nature like it it
doesn't really matter and in many ways
uh the reason I'm in this space Bas is
because uh of the opportunities that eum
provides as a as a as an application
platform as a developers platform
there's Limitless potential to build
decentralized Unstoppable applications
so that's where I think ethereum should
focus now when it comes down to building
an application platform going back to
that better faster cheaper what
developers want is uh super cheap
blockchain super fast blockchain and
it's just better in terms of the
ecosystem so etherum has won the
ecosystem play right majority of the
ecosystem part participants are on the
evm it doesn't matter if it's like a
bridge or RPC or a or or indexer like
coent it's all evm so evm is the number
one uh so they've won that game now when
it comes to better and faster this is
where you have a philosophical argument
so one way to make your blockchain
faster is by making it what is known as
a data center chain which means you
limit your node oper ators to few select
participants who have access to data
center style uh gear so dedicated
Hardware dedicated devops people so if
you look at the newer blockchains like
Solana monad say these are data center
chains which means you know they don't
have a lot of uh distribution in terms
of the number of nodes uh it's very
expensive to run these nodes um you need
specialized gear you need specialized
knowhow on how to scale these noes and
so on it's not really uh a retail play
it's not meant for hobbyist uh operators
at home now AUM uh is directly in
conflict with that that's where it
started out it started out by empowering
the solo sckers the home stickers it's
actually right very easy for you to run
an eat note at home not a full archive
note but you know just participate in
running a solo Saker so that ideal is
now being challenged on whether the Sol
sakers are important for the next leg of
the journey and so what AUM is trying to
do uh you know there's definitely a
battle where they're trying to Chuck out
some of the technical choices that have
been made to enable these solo sers so
my fear is ethereum is going to become a
data center chain and it's going to
become like one of these other
blockchains like salana and monad and so
on now the challenge with the data in
the chain to reach this hybd scale one
of the things they have to do is discard
his iCal data so if you run a Bitcoin
Noe for example you can trace every
single transaction from the Genesis
block from satoshi's like single single
Lo block from day one right eving is
traceable so anyone can basically
replicate the entire blockchain and
bring it to the head of the blockchain
without having to go outside what the
node provides you on ethereum that is
definitely possible but the set of
changes that are happening that are
coming down the pipe some of it that has
already shipped is is making that
impossible so an example um is the blobs
so deun uh released the blob
architecture uh this happened a few
months ago is a hard Fork was a pretty
major upgrade so historically what has
been happening is all of these rollups
use a data structure known as call data
to put their transaction data and this
is how you know Z casing scroll arbitrum
optimism that's basically what they were
doing now the challenge is the call data
is data availability on chain it's a
it's a premium and so when all of these
rollups start dumping onto the L1 the
cost of riding to the L1 goes to the
roof and that cost is passed down to the
L2 users so even though these l2s were
faster in theory the the fee structure
was still expensive because they all had
to settle on the L1 so with the dayon
upgrade they introdu this new data
structure called a blob where they could
write to the blob and that's a different
fee market so you're not competing with
application L1 and that substantially
REM like decrease the gas fees so if you
look at the average gas fees over the
last couple of weeks it's been like one
gu and and at times actually sub one G
right so it's been really cheap to use
which is fantastic but the trade-off
here is that AUM deletes that blob after
4,000 eox or 18 days which means you
don't have access to this historical
transaction data so it's shedding some
crucial information in order to reach
faster throughputs and that's fine right
that's okay so blockchains are not
databases blockchains are more like
Billboards where you post your
transaction data wait for some kind of
like Challenge and that's it after the
challenge window you don't need that
transaction data anymore because the
blockchain has propagated so blockchains
are more like Billboards so you don't
really need the historical data so this
is where the eum Wayback machine comes
in it's almost like uh you can think of
as an ally so goes back to this modular
architecture where it doesn't matter if
you Outsource your execution to like
move VM or svm or you move your da to
like Celestia or Anan da or any of the
da players by the way this deleting
transaction data is common across the
board so Celestia uh IND they all delete
the data right that's how they're able
to reach hyperscale and that's like
that's a common feature so about a year
and a half ago uh sham one of the
founders of uh igen Lair uh I was
chatting with him about you know the
space and where Ian da and so on reaking
and so on I'm not super uh
top of like uh on top of things in the
reaing world there's a lot of like
financial and economic stuff which is
outside my area expertise but on the on
the data availability he crafted this
thing talking about short-term da and
long-term da so short-term da is meant
for the challenge window it's for
transaction datas and for the for the
blockchain to propagate and long-term da
which has a different security model is
required for um you know uh to preserve
the history of the the blockchain and so
this is where we introduced the ethereum
reback machine we wrote this white paper
about a year ago and uh you know the
reception has been incredible from
people in this space and uh um uh we
released the test net about two weeks
ago and about 4,000 people have signed
up for the test net to run these like
clients so you can run these light
clients on your phone on your laptop you
don't need to run a full archive node
you don't need any of the heavy duty
gear and it continues to keep ethereum
itself secure so while ethereum itself
sheds the historical data with the data
availability sampling and all the that
be used in the light client you should
are able to rebuild the entire state of
ethereum so you've preserved what has
made ethereum special even though you
know it's been rearchitecturing
and uh you know faster uh high bandwidth
uh blockchains wow fantastic description
um coming from I I kind of had like a a
surface level understanding of of what
the the thean Wayback machine was
seeking to offer and the description you
just gave made me toly understand why
it's an integral part of maintaining the
record and history of what is happening
on the ethereum Chain um so yeah you
nailed it um that was incredible uh
we're kind of like wrapping up or or
coming to the near the end of our time
so maybe we can end the conversation
then and and zoom out and maybe um hear
from you where you think we're going to
be in in the next few years or maybe
I'll even just open it up in general you
say that you're essentially just an
optimist so maybe give us like um a
reason or a couple reasons for Hope on
on why you're so optimistic about what
the overarching um opportunity that
these Technologies offer Us and how
they're going to improve and and benefit
um the lives of of humankind absolutely
yeah great uh way to wrap up so I think
it goes back to this better faster
cheaper and there are multiple people in
the industry who don't look at like coin
gecko prices they don't look at you know
what Bitcoin prices and they continue to
grind uh day in and day out better
faster and cheaper so when it comes to
blockchains blockchains are going to be
substantially faster uh they're going to
have um a change in the security model
from crypto economic to like uh zkps
which are zero knowledge proves they're
un undefeatable unbreakable I think um
the crypto adoption question is a
bipartisan issue so uh perhaps you know
the Dems are a little uh maybe it's like
delay the adoption of crypto by a few
months that's where my conviction is uh
but I think at this stage crypto is
Unstoppable there's just way too much
going on uh in the adoption sense and
you have players like coinbase that are
pushing hard uh just yesterday the base
tvl uh flipped arbitr tvl right so
clearly you know there's uh real
traction real adoption all of the stuff
for the meme coins I think will die out
like very fast and and if you look at
what's happening with projects like
coent projects like filecoin projects
like all the deepend projects uh it's
incredible like how you know there's
real adoption real traction and if you
were to paint an analogy with where the
internet was in late 90s you had this
hype cycle which completely burst with
the internet bubble but by 2004 that's
when Google R public that's when
Facebook was founded then you had um
Twitter then you had you know all the
other social media players then you had
Instagram and you had all these you had
Airbnb all these cryp internet native
companies and products and services I
think that's the same thing that's going
to happen most of what we see on
blockchains today are more like internet
like digital like uh products being
moved on chain and so you will have you
know genuinely Crypton native uh uh
payments and crypto native use cases in
the next couple years I'm I'm more
bullish I think the next five years is
going to be more exciting than the last
five and just How Far We've Come the
last five years right stable coins erc20
tokens rollups uh ZK zkp um alt VMS alt
Das uh every every every question uh has
been answered and reans answered and
there's been No Leaf that's been uh
overturned so I'm very very excited very
bullish on the space and I think you
just have to zoom out a bit and not look
at uh Bitcoin prices on a daily basis uh
so if you look at the big picture I
think you know things are trending in
the right direction I would in fact say
things are actually accelerating which
is very exciting I would say the longer
you're here the easier it is to not look
at the day-to-day price of Bitcoin um
Ganesh fantastic way to end this this
interview this conversation um looking
forward who do you want to talk to and
what's the best way they can reach out
to you yeah so you can uh talk to me on
X uh my Twitter handle is g n
e5h uh we'll probably have it in the
show notes uh follow Co _ HQ for our uh
our main like decentralized protocol and
uh stay a breast of everything that's
coming down the pipe uh we have a main
net um potentially you know depending on
audits end of the end of the year uh
around descon so very very excited for
everything that's happening in the
ecosystem today well I'm wishing you a a
good luck with your main at launch and
and around your your proposed timeline
uh that would be fantastic to see at
Devcon uh and with that I want to thank
you so much for taking the time to chat
with us today was a a phenomenal
conversation Dylan thank you so much for
this opportunity looking forward to the
next steps thank you cheers thank you so
much for tuning in to the smart economy
podcast to stay in the loop with our
latest episodes and insights head over
to
www.smart economy podcast.com and don't
forget to subscribe to our YouTube
channel for all your favorite
content if you enjoyed today's
discussion please show your support by
liking commenting and reviewing this
episode on your favorite podcast
platform your feedback helps us reach
more listeners and brings even better
content your way so we would love to
hear from you drop a comment on Spotify
or YouTube to share what topics you'd
like us to cover or who you'd like to
see as our next guest and if you or
someone you know would make a great
guest feel free to reach out we are
always looking for fresh voices and New
Perspectives and if you're a neot token
holder please consider are voting for
Neo news today as your Council
representative we've proudly been
serving the Neo ecosystem since
2017 and we'll continue to do so by
putting portions of our Council rewards
directly back into ecosystem growth
initiatives with all that said thank you
so much for listening and we can't wait
to catch you next time
you